
===== PAGE 1 =====
Official Rules  
for  
2026 IEEE Metaverse Grand Challenge for Simulation-based Learning 
NO PURCHASE OR PAYMENT IS NECESSARY TO ENTER OR WIN. A PURCHASE 
WILL NOT IMPROVE YOUR ODDS OF WINNING. 
Contest: 
IEEE Future Directions & Young Professionals - 2026 IEEE Metaverse Grand Challenge for 
Simulation-based Learning (the “Contest”). 
Sponsor: 
The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Incorporated, 445 Hoes Lane, 
Piscataway, New Jersey, USA, 08854 (“Sponsor”). 
Eligibility: 
Contest is open to residents of the United States of America and other countries, where 
permitted by local law, who are the age of eighteen (18) and older. All entrants must be a  
student from an accredited university or a Young Professional (“YP”) who has graduated with 
their first professional degree within the past 15 years. Employees of Sponsor, its agents, 
affiliates, and their immediate families are not eligible. Entrants should review their 
institution’s or employer’s policies regarding contest participation, as they may be subject to 
specific rules or restrictions.   Void where prohibited by law.  For the avoidance of doubt, the 
Contest is not open to individuals or teams who are subject to export control regulations. 
Past winners from previous  IEEE Metaverse Grand Challenge are allowed to participate 
provided their submissions are new or substantially different. 
Agreement to Official Rules: 
By participating in this Contest, entrants agree to abide by the terms and conditions established 
by the Sponsor. Sponsor reserves the right to modify any of these Official Rules at any time  
and for any reason. All decisions made by the Sponsor concerning the Contest including, but 
not limited to the cancellation of the Contest, shall be final and at its sole discretion. 
Entry Period: 
The Contest begins on February  15, 2026, at 8 AM EDT  and ends on August 15, 2026, at 
23:59 PM EDT (“Entry Period”). Sponsor’s server is the official clock for the Contest. Entries 
received before or after the entry period are void. 
How to Enter: 
===== PAGE 2 =====
Entrants can register online ( https://metaversereality.ieee.org/competition) to express their 
interest in the Contest. To actually participate in the Contest, an entrant’s team (“Team”) must 
upload their project, as specified on the C ontest webpage, within the entry period specified 
above.  More details on the format of submissions are included in the description below.   
● Teams may consist of 1 to 5 individuals. 
● Each individual may be part of only one team. 
● A list of team members must be provided by each team during project submission. 
● Teams cannot change members after project submission. 
Only entries submitted in accordance with these Official Rules will be eligible for 
consideration. No alternate means of entry permitted. All entries become the exclusive property 
of Sponsor and will not be acknowledged or returned.  
Selection of Winner:  
A Selection Committee of judges qualified to evaluate submissions of this nature has been 
created by the IEEE Metaverse Initiative  and IEEE YPs. Submissions will be assessed based 
on the criteria listed below in the Judging Criteria section. Judges will use a scoring system to 
evaluate each submission and will meet to establish final rankings and determine the winners 
in case of a tie.  The confidentiality of the contents of each submission will be strictly 
maintained.  
There will be a separate Selection Committee to evaluate submissions for the IEEE Smart Cities 
Award for Metaverse Grand Challenge for Simulation-based Learning. 
A team can receive only one award.  
Challenge Overview: 
Simulation-Based Approach: 
Teams will have the creative freedom to develop immersive simulations  that model key 
processes and innovations in education. The focus is on designing engaging, interactive 
simulations that can enhance the learning and training experience for YPs and students. 
Objective: 
The Contest aims to foster simulation-driven learning experiences on 2D or 3D metaverse 
platforms, allowing users to interactively engage with concepts, processes, and problem -
solving scenarios. Participants will design, simulate, and showcase emerging technology using 
real-time, AI-enhanced, and/or user -adaptive simulations. The goal is to create scalable, 
immersive, and globally accessible educational tools that transform learning. 
Theme Categories: 
===== PAGE 3 =====
Each team must select one of the following themes to guide their simulation development: 
1. Healthcare Applications in Digital Learning 
○ Simulating patient interactions, surgical procedures, and/or medical training in 
immersive environments. 
○ Exploring AI-driven diagnostics, wearable health tech, and/or virtual hospital 
management simulations. 
2. Sustainable Smart Cities and Urban Innovation 
○ Highlighting sustainability principles through virtual laboratories and/or  eco-
friendly innovations. 
○ Demonstrating energy- efficient systems, recycling methodologies, and/or  
sustainability analytics in an educational settings. 
○ Public safety infrastructure, including smart surveillance, emergency response 
systems, and/or disaster resilience planning. 
3. Advanced Learning in Educational or Classroom Environment 
○ Simulating AI-driven personalization in education, including adaptive learning 
systems. 
○ Exploring smart classroom concepts, immersive collaboration spaces, and/or 
AI-powered instructional tools. 
○ Focusing on inclusive,  accessible, equitable, and future -ready learning 
environments. 
Submission Format: 
Submissions to the Contest shall consist of: 
1. A PowerPoint Presentation: 
○ Up to 5 pages of presentation slides . The presentation should clearly indicate 
the selected theme category of the project submission. The presentation should 
provide a brief description of the implementation design and highlight key 
technology elements that enhance education and learning experiences. 
2. Video Recording: 
○ A 5-7 minute video  recording in MP4 format showcasing the project. The 
narrative in the recording should highlight any element that should be 
considered in the evaluation process.  
Judging Criteria: 
 
Elements for consideration include: 
● Effectiveness of Simulation-Based Learning (25%) 
● Creativity & Innovation (20%) 
● Educational Impact and/or Learning Effectiveness (20%) 
● User Experience (UI/UX) and Engagement (15%) 
● Integration of AI, Gamification and/or Adaptive Learning (10%) 
===== PAGE 4 =====
● Sustainability, Accessibility, and/or Ethical Considerations (10%) 
Prizes: 
The prize(s) for the Contest are being sponsored by IEEE.   
 
The Contest will award up to two (2) first -place awards (travel reimbursement) and two (2) 
second-place awards. Awards will be given only if a suitable awardee is identified.  
 
• Two (2) First-Place Awards (Travel Reimbursement): Each of the two prize winning 
teams will receive travel reimbursement of up to USD $2,500 to attend the 2026 IEEE 
International Symposium on Emerging Metaverse ( ISEMV 2026) or another event to 
be determined by the IEEE Metaverse Initiative. 
• Two (2) Second-Place Awards:  Each of the two second -place teams  will receive 
premium backpack s featuring the  IEEE Metaverse and YP logos , along with a 
certificate of achievement. 
• Each of the two (2) First-Place Awards winners and the two (2) Second-Place Awards 
winners will be considered “Prize Winners”. 
 
In addition, the Contest, via the sponsorship of IEEE Smart Cities , will award up to one (1) 
first-place award (monetary prize) to a team who submitted under the “sustainable smart cities 
and urban innovation” category. The IEEE Smart Cities Award for Metaverse Grand Challenge 
for Simulation-based Learning will be given only if a suitable awardee is identified. 
 
• One First-Place Award – USD $1000 monetary prize for the winning team.  
 
A team can receive only one award.  
 
No substitution of prize permitted, except that Sponsor reserves the right to substitute a prize 
or prize component of equal or greater value in its sole discretion for any reason at time of 
award.  Sponsor shall not be responsible for service obligations or warranty (if any) in relation 
to the prize(s). Prize may not be transferred prior to award. All other expenses associated with 
use of the prize, including, but not limited to local, state, or federal taxes on the Prize, are the 
sole responsibility of the winner.  Winner(s) understand that delivery of a prize may be void 
where prohibited by law and agrees that Sponsor shall have no obligation to substitute an 
alternate prize when so prohibited.  
Notification of Potential Prize Winners: 
The Prize Winners will be notified by e -mail within 14 days of the selection date.  If a Prize 
Winner does not acknowledge acceptance of the Prize within 14 business days after being 
notified that he or she is a Prize Winner, or if a potential Prize Winner does not return the 
signed claim forms within the required time, or is otherwise found to be ineligible or not in full 
compliance with these Official Rules, another Prize Winner will be chosen using the same 
procedure specified above. Potential Prize Winner may be asked to execute and return to 
Sponsor a declaration of eligibility and liability/publicity release, where lawful, within fourteen 
(14) days of attempted notification. Winner may waive the right to receive the prize. The 
decisions of Sponsor are final and binding in all respects.
 
===== PAGE 5 =====
Release, Publicity, and Privacy: 
By receipt of the Prize and/or, if requested, by signing an affidavit of eligibility and 
liability/publicity release, the Prize Winner consents to the use of his or her name, likeness, 
business name and address by Sponsor for advertising and promotional purposes, including but 
not limited to on Sponsor’s social media pages, without any additional compensation, except 
where prohibited.  No entries will be returned.  All entries become the property of Sponsor.  
The Prize Winner agrees to release and hold harm less Sponsor and its officers, directors, 
employees, affiliated companies, agents, successors and assigns from and against any claim or 
cause of action arising out of participation in the Contest.   
 
Sponsor assumes no responsibility for computer system, hardware, software or program 
malfunctions or other errors, failures, delayed computer transactions or network connections 
that are human or technical in nature, or for damaged, lost, late, illegible or misdirected entries; 
technical, hardware, software, electronic or telephone failures of any kind; lost or unavailable 
network connections; fraudulent, incomplete, garbled or delayed computer transmissions 
whether caused by Sponsor, the users, or by any of the equipment or programming associated 
with or utilized in this Contest; or by any technical or human error that may occur in the 
processing of submissions or downloading, that may limit, delay or prevent an entrant’s ability 
to participate in the Contest. 
  
Sponsor reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to cancel or suspend this contest and award a 
prize from entries received up to the time of termination or suspension should virus, bugs or 
other causes beyond Sponsor’s control, unauthorized human intervention, malfunction, 
computer problems, phone line or network hardware or software malfunction, which, in the 
sole opinion of Sponsor, corrupt, compromise or materially affect the administration, fairness, 
security or proper play of the contest or proper submission of entries.  Sponsor is not liable for 
any loss, injury or damage caused, whether directly or indirectly, in whole or in part, from 
downloading data or otherwise participating in this Contest.  
 
Entrant acknowledges and agrees that Sponsor may collect, store, share, and otherwise use 
personally identifiable information provided during the registration and application process and 
the Contest, including, but not limited to, name, mailing address, phone number, and email 
address.  Sponsor will use this information with accordance with its Privacy Policy 
(https://www.ieee.org/security_privacy.html
), including for administering the Contest and 
verifying Entrant’s identity, postal address, and telephone number in the event an entry 
qualifies for a prize. Entrant’s information may also be transferred to countries outside the 
country of Entrant’s residence, including the United States. Such other countries may not have 
privacy laws and regulations similar to those of the country of Entrant’s residence. If an Entrant 
does not provide the mandatory data required at registration, Sponsor reserves the right  to 
disqualify the entry.  
 
Right to Use Entries: 
By entering the Contest, entrants grant Sponsor a non- exclusive, irrevocable, royalty- free, 
perpetual, worldwide right and license to reproduce, publish, display, edit and otherwise use 
the submitted Entries, and entrant’s full name and city and state/province/country of residence, 
photograph, likeness, voice and institutional affiliation, in print or any offline or online and 
===== PAGE 6 =====
other media for purposes of editorials, exhibition, advertising, publicity and promotion without 
additional compensation or permission, unless prohibited by law. 
 
Representations and Warranties Regarding Entries:  
 
By submitting an Entry, you represent and warrant that your Entry does not and shall not 
comprise, contain, or describe, as determined in Sponsor’s sole discretion: (A) false statements 
or any misrepresentations of your affiliation with a person or entity; (B) personally identifying 
information about you or any other person; (C) statements or other content that is false, 
deceptive, misleading, scandalous, indecent, obscene, unlawful, defamatory, libelous, 
fraudulent, tortious, threatening, harassing, hateful, degrading, intimidating, or racially or 
ethnically offensive; (D) conduct that could be considered a crimina l offense, could give rise 
to criminal or civil liability, or could violate any law; (E) any advertising, promotion or other 
solicitation, or any third party brand name or trademark; or (F) any virus, worm, Trojan horse, 
or other harmful code or component. By submitting an Entry, you represent and warrant that 
you own the full rights to the Entry and have obtained any and all necessary consents, 
permissions, approvals and licenses to submit the Entry and comply with all of these Official 
Rules, and that the  submitted Entry is your sole original work, has not been previously 
published, released or distributed, and does not infringe any third- party rights or violate any 
laws or regulations. 
 
Limitations of Liability/Reserved Rights:   
 
Neither Sponsor, its parent, subsidiary or affiliated companies, nor its advertising or 
promotional agencies shall have any obligation, liability or responsibility with regard to (i) 
entries that contain incorrect or inaccurate information or do not comply  with these Official 
Rules, (ii) entries, prize claims or notifications that are lost, late, incomplete, illegible, 
unintelligible, damaged or otherwise not received by the intended recipient, in whole or in part, 
due to computer, technical or other error of any kind, (iii) telephone, electronic, hardware, 
software, network, Internet or computer malfunctions, failures or difficulties of any kind, (iv) 
any condition caused by events beyond the control of Sponsor that may cause the Contest to 
be disrupted or delayed, (v) any printing or typographical errors in these Official Rules or any 
other materials associated with the Contest, or (vi) any damages or losses of any kind caused 
by any prize or resulting from participation in the Contest, accessing, uploading or 
downloading data in connection with the Contest, or acceptance, possession or use of any prize.  
Sponsor, in its sole discretion, reserves the right to disqualify any entrant tampering with or 
abusing the entry process or the operation of the Contest or otherwise violating these Official 
Rules.  Sponsor, in its sole discretion, further reserves the right to cancel, terminate, suspend 
or modify the Contest if the Contest cannot be completed as planned because of infection by 
computer virus, bugs, tampering, unauthorized intervention or technical failures of any sort and 
to select a winner from among eligible entries unaffected by such event, if any. 
 
Disputes:  
 
EACH ENTRANT AGREES THAT: (1) ANY AND ALL DISPUTES, CLAIMS, AND 
CAUSES OF ACTION ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS CONTEST, 
OR ANY PRIZES AWARDED, SHALL BE RESOLVED INDIVIDUALLY, WITHOUT 
RESORTING TO ANY FORM OF CLASS ACTION, PURSUANT TO ARBITRATION 
CONDUCTED UNDER THE COMMERCIAL ARBITRATION RULES OF THE 
AMERICAN ARBITRATION ASSOCIATION THEN IN EFFECT, (2) ANY AND ALL 
===== PAGE 7 =====
CLAIMS, JUDGMENTS AND AWARDS SHALL BE LIMITED TO ACTUAL OUT -OF-
POCKET COSTS INCURRED, INCLUDING COSTS ASSOCIATED WITH ENTERING 
THIS CONTEST, BUT IN NO EVENT ATTORNEYS' FEES; AND (3) UNDER NO 
CIRCUMSTANCES WILL ANY ENTRANT BE PERMITTED TO OBTAIN AWARDS 
FOR, AND ENTRANT HEREBY WAIVES ALL RIGHTS TO CLAIM, PUNITIVE, 
INCIDENTAL, AND CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, AND ANY OTHER DAMAGES, 
OTHER THAN FOR ACTUAL OUT -OF-POCKET EXPENSES, AND ANY AND ALL 
RIGHTS TO HAVE DAMAGES MULTIPLIED OR OTHERWISE INCREASED.  ALL 
ISSUES AND QUESTIONS CONCERNING THE CONSTRUCTION, VALIDITY, 
INTERPRETATION AND ENFORCEABILITY OF THESE OFFICIAL RULES, OR THE 
RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF ENTRANT AND SPONSOR IN CONNECTION  WITH 
THE CONTEST, SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE 
WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW JERSEY, WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO 
ANY CHOICE OF LAW OR CONFLICT OF LAW, RULES OR PROVISIONS (WHETHER 
OF THE STATE OF NEW JERSEY OR ANY OTHER JURISDICTION) THAT WOULD 
CAUSE THE APPLICATION OF THE LAWS OF ANY JURISDICTION OTHER THAN 
THE STATE OF NEW JERSEY.  SPONSOR IS NOT RESPONSIBLE FOR ANY 
TYPOGRAPHICAL OR OTHER ERROR IN THE PRINTING OF THE OFFER OR 
ADMINISTRATION OF THE CONTEST OR IN THE ANNOUNCEMENT OF THE 
PRIZES.   
 
Contest Results and Official Rules:   
 
To obtain the identity of the Prize Winner and/or a copy of these Official Rules, send a self -
addressed stamped envelope to Technical Activities, The Institute of Electrical and Electronics 
Engineers, Incorporated (“IEEE”), 445 Hoes Lane, Piscataway, New Jersey, USA, 08854. 
 
 